I also read a lot of comic books as I was growing up, and I think that might have influenced me just as much. I mean, they're always trying to save the world, with their underpants on the outside or these skin-tight iron suits, which is really pretty strange when you think about it. But they are trying to save the world.
When I was in college I wanted to be involved in things that would change the world. Now I am.
The five things I thought about in college... making life multi-planetary, accelerating the transition to sustainable energy, the internet broadly speaking, and then genetics & AI. I didn't expect to be involved in all of those things.
At the time in college I sort of thought helping with electrification of cars was how I would start out. And that's actually what I worked on as an intern, was advanced ultra-capacitors, to see if there would be a breakthrough relative to batteries or energy storage in cars.
You can get a doctorate on many things that ultimately do not have a practical bearing on the world. And I was really just trying to be useful while in University. That's the optimization. It was like, what could I do that would actually be useful.
I think a lot of people think I must spend a lot of time with media or on businessy things, but almost all my time, like 80% of it, is spent on engineering & design. So it's developing next generation product, that's 80% of it.
I think a lot of people think I'm kind of a business person or something, which is fine. Business is fine. But really, like at SpaceX Gwynne Shotwell is Chief Operating Officer and she manages legal, finance, sales, and general business activity. And my time is almost entirely with the engineering team working on improving the Falcon 9, and our dragon spacecraft, and developing the Mars colonial architecture.
As a kid when I asked for an explanation, I got the true explanation of how things work.
I usually describe myself as an engineer. That's basically what I've been doing since I was a kid.
Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy taught me that the tough thing is figuring out what questions to ask
I have OCD on product-related issues. I only see what's wrong. I never see what's right.
My biggest mistake is probably weighing too much on someone's talent and not someone's personality. I think it matters whether someone has a good heart.
No, I don't ever give up. I'd have to be dead or completely incapacitated.
My motivation for all my companies has been to be involved in something that I thought would have a significant impact on the world.
I think I feel fear quite strongly. It's not as though I have the absence of fear, I feel it quite strongly. But there are times when something is important enough and you believe in it enough that you do it in spite of fear.
I'd like my fear emotion to be less because it's very distracting and fries my nervous system.
I've actually not read any books on time management.
There are certain problems that I care about, and those are the things that I invest in to help solve.
I don't spend my time pontificating about high-concept things; I spend my time solving engineering and manufacturing problems.
My proceeds from PayPal were $180M. I put $100M in SpaceX, $70M in Tesla, and $10M in SolarCity. I had to borrow money for rent.
Whatever the thing is you're trying to create, ask what would be the utility delta compared to the current state of the art, times how many people it would affect? So that's why I think something that makes a big difference, but affects a small to moderate number of people is great, as is something that makes a small difference but affects a vast number of people. The area under the curve would be roughly similar for those two things. So it's really about trying to be useful.
Optimism, pessimism, f*** that; we're going to make it happen. As God as my bloody witness, I'm hell-bent on making it work.
Talent is extremely important. It's like a sports team, the team that has the best individual player will often win, but then there's a multiplier from how those players work together and the strategy they employ.
Don't be afraid of new arenas
As much as possible, avoid hiring MBAs. MBA programs don't teach people how to create companies.
If somebody is doing something that's useful to the rest of society I think that's a good thing. Like it doesn't have to change the world. If you're doing something that has high value to people, and frankly even if it's a littlegame or some improvement in photo sharing or something, if it does a small amount of good for a large number of people that's fine. Stuff doesn't need to change the world just to be good.
So there's really two main dimensions along which cost optimization and making something available in the national market can be achieved. One is design iteration, going through multiple versions of something, and then the other is economies of scale. You kind of need both of those things in order to make compelling mass market product. If you look at, like, cell phones and how many design iterations have we gone through with cell phones and look at the scale at which they are made, which is enormous; and that's what enables everyone to have a supercomputer in their pocket.
Disruptive technology where you really have a big technology discontinuity... tends to come from new companies.
It's very important to like the people you work with, otherwise life and your job is gonna be quite miserable.
You have to say, 'Well, why did it succeed where others did not?'
You shouldn't do things differently just because they're different. They need to be... better.
When Henry Ford made cheap, reliable cars people said, 'Nah, what's wrong with a horse?' That was a huge bet he made, and it worked.
There will be continued innovation, for sure, but the great problems of the Internet have essentially been solved.
If you're trying to create a company, it's like baking a cake. You have to have all the ingredients in the right proportion.
What makes innovative thinking happen?... I think it's really a mindset. You have to decide.
Work like hell. I mean you just have to put in 80 to 100 hour weeks every week. This improves the odds of success.
Starting & growing a business is as much about the innovation, drive and determination of the people as the product they sell.
I do think there is a lot of potential if you have a compelling product and people are willing to pay a premium for that.
I say something, and then it usually happens. Maybe not on schedule, but it usually happens.
If you're co-founder or CEO, you have to do all kinds of tasks you might not want to do... No task is too menial.
A company... is only as good as its people and how excited they are about creating.
I think it is a mistake to hire huge numbers of people to get a complicated job done. Numbers will never compensate for talent in getting the right answer (two people who don't know something are no better than one), will tend to slow down progress, and will make the task incredibly expensive.
Brand is just a perception, and perception will match reality over time.
There's a tremendous bias against taking risks. Everyone is trying to optimize their ass-covering.
We have essentially no patents in SpaceX... if we published patents... the Chinese would just use them as a recipe book.
I'm actually wondering about putting in a roller coaster — like a functional roller coaster at the factory in Fremont.
Technology leadership is not defined by patents, which history has repeatedly shown to be small protection indeed against a determined competitor, but rather by the ability of a company to attract and motivate the world's most talented engineers.
It's okay to have all your eggs in one basket, as long as you control what happens to that basket.
Being an entrepreneur is like eating glass and staring into the abyss of death.
Persistence is very important. You should not give up unless you are forced to give up.
Failure is an option here. If things are not failing, you are not innovating enough.
People work better when they know what the goal is and why. It's important that people look forward to coming to work.
I think it's important to take as much feedback as you can from as many people as you can about whatever idea you have. You should seek negative feedback, especially from friends.
Great companies are built on great products.
Company death – not succeeding with the company – causes me a lot more stress than physical danger
I don't think it's a good idea to plan to sell a company.
The path to the CEO's office should not be through the CFO's office... It needs to be through engineering and design.
I always invest my own money in the companies that I create.
Constantly think about how you could be doing things better and keep questioning yourself.
When you want to do something new, you have to apply the physics approach. Physics is really figuring out how to discover new things that are counterintuitive, like quantum mechanics.
I don't believe in process. In fact, when I interview a potential employee and he or she says that 'it's all about the process,' I see that as a bad sign.
Boil things down to their fundamental truths and reason up from there.
Any product that needs a manual to work is broken.
You want to be extra rigorous about making the best possible thing you can. Find everything that's wrong with it and fix it.
Probably the most valuable thing that the Hyperloop paper that I published has done is to spur thinking in terms of new transportation systems. So it's not just 'Oh lets have a fast train that's not even as fast as what Japan's done in the 80's' - I don't see what the point in that is.
 
As of 2016, the number of American car companies that haven't gone bankrupt is a grand total of two: Ford and Tesla.
We could definitely make a flying car – but that's not the hard part. The hard part is, how do you make a flying car that's super safe and quiet? Because if it's a howler, you're going to make people very unhappy.
We will not stop until every car on the road is electric
I'm not the biggest proponent of hydrogen... Success is not one of the possible outcomes.
The only reason they the big car companies do fuel cell, they don't really believe it, it's like a marketing thing.
We actually bring the car and we kind of hit it with a pit crew, like a Formula One pit crew.
I think there are more politicians in favor of electric cars than against.
You have to match the convenience of the gasoline car in order for people to buy an electric car.
In order to have clean air in cities, you have to go electric.
You should not show somebody something very cool and then not do it. At Tesla, any prototype that is shown to customers, the production must be better.
With the Model 3, a future compact SUV and a new kind of pickup truck, we plan to address most of the consumer market.
We believe the Tesla Semi will deliver a substantial reduction in the cost of cargo transport, while increasing safety...
There are two other types of electric vehicle needed: heavy-duty trucks and high passenger-density urban transport.
The F-150 is the best selling car in America. If people are voting that's their car, then that's the car we have to deliver.
The average speed on the line at the Tesla Freemont factory is incredibly slow... Including S & X, it's maybe 5 cm per second. This is very slow. I'm confident we can get to at least 1 metre per second. So, a 20 fold increase at least. To put that into perspective, 1 metre per second is a slow walk, or at least a medium speed walk, a fast walk would be 1.5 metres per second. And then the fastest humans can run over 10 metres per second. So, if we're only doing 0.05 metres per second that's very slow.
The lithium is two percent of the cell mass in our batteries. So it's like salt in the salad; it's a very small amount of the cell mass and a fairly small amount of the cost. But it sounds like it's big because it's called 'lithium ion,' but really, our battery should be called 'nickel graphite,' because it's mostly nickel and graphite.
We expect that worldwide self-driving regulatory approval will require something on the order of 6 billion miles.
In cities where demand of rides in Tesla's self-driving cars exceeds the supply of customer-owned cars, Tesla will operate its own fleet.
When true self-driving is approved by regulators, it will mean that you will be able to summon your Tesla from anywhere.
Once Autopilot is approximately 10 times safer than the US vehicle average, the beta label will be removed.
Current fleet learning is happening at just over 3 million miles (5 million km) per day.
All Tesla vehicles will have the hardware necessary to be fully self-driving with fail-operational capability
It would no more make sense to disable Tesla's Autopilot... than it would to disable autopilot in aircraft...
People may outlaw driving cars because it's too dangerous. You can't have a person driving a two-ton death machine.
It's funny. Not everyone loves humanity. Either explicitly or implicitly, some people seem to think that humans are a blight on the Earth's surface. They say things like, 'Nature is so wonderful; things are always better in the countryside where there are no people around.' They imply that humanity and civilisation are less good than their absence. But I'm not in that school. I think we have a duty to maintain the light of consciousness, to make sure it continues into the future.
At our current rate of technological growth, humanity is on a path to be godlike in its capabilities. You could bicycle to Alpha Centauri in a few hundred thousand years, and that's nothing on an evolutionary scale. If an advanced civilisation existed at any place in this galaxy, at any point in the past 13.8 billion years, why isn't it everywhere? Even if it moved slowly, it would only need something like .01 percent of the Universe's lifespan to be everywhere. So why isn't it?
People shouldn't think ‘I feel fear about this and therefore shouldn't do it.' It's normal to feel fear, like you'd have to have something mentally wrong if you didn't feel fear.
Something that can be helpful is fatalism, to some degree. If you just accept the probabilities, then that diminishes fear.
Physics is true, everything else is debatable, and even physics is questionable.
Obviously if the President could make the economy great, and there was like a button he could press, he'd be pressing that button at the speed of light, but they can't. They can't just magically make the economy good, no President wants the economy bad - ever - there's just a limit to how much they can do.
I always have optimism, but I'm realistic. It was not with the expectation of great success that I started Tesla or SpaceX.
Don't delude yourself into thinking something's working when it's not, or you're gonna get fixated on a bad solution.
People should pursue what they're passionate about. That will make them happier than pretty much anything else.
If you get up in the morning and think the future is going to be better, it is a bright day. Otherwise, it's not.
The first step is to establish that something is possible; then probability will occur.
If something is important enough you should try, even if the probable outcome is failure.
I think it is possible for ordinary people to choose to be extraordinary.
Most people can learn a lot more than they think they can.
Life is too short for long-term grudges.
The United States is a nation of explorers. America is the spirit of human exploration distilled.
It wasn't a question of profit versus non-profit. It was how do we live.
I think if you can solve genetic diseases. If you can prevent dementia, or Alzheimer's or something like that with genetic reprogramming that would be wonderful.
A factory deserves more innovation and more engineering skill than the product itself.
The biggest epiphany I've had this year is that what really matters is the machine that builds the machine - the factory. And that is at least two orders of magnitude harder than the vehicle itself.
We're only able to do this build the Gigafactory because of you guys Tesla owners. Without you this could not be possible.
The Gigafactory is about being able to... actually move the needle from a global carbon production perspective.
I actually really love manufacturing. It's great. I think more people should get into it.
We can fit 50 Billion hamsters in the gigafactory
One way to think of manufacturing efficiency is how long a journey did that molecule take from when it was mined. So if it was mined in one part of the world, and eventually does several trips around the world before it ends up in a finished product, that's fundamentally expensive.
It makes sense for rail cars of raw materials to come in one side, and then for finished vehicles to exit the other side.
I'm really excited about revitalizing manufacturing. It needs love and we're gonna give it.
There is at least a 5 - 10 fold potential improvement in production capability with the Gigafactory.
The Gigafactory is essentially designed like a very high density, multi-layered integrated circuit. Like an advanced CPU.
We consider the factory to be a product. The factory itself is the machine that builds the machine
What really matters to accelerate a sustainable future is being able to scale up production volume as quickly as possible.
Tesla... focuses heavily on designing the machine that makes the machine - turning the factory itself into a product.
